Course Syllabus
CSCE 4350 / Fundamentals of Database Systems
Instructor Contact
Name: Ryan Garlick
Office Location: VIA ZOOM THIS SEMESTER
Office Hours: See Canvas. Please schedule in advance via email.
Email: garlick@unt.edu
TA: Arup Datta:
Office Hours: TBD, via Zoom: https://unt.zoom.us/j/
If you need to meet in person, please email beforehand to set up a time and place that
works for both of you.
I reserve the right to modify course policies, the course calendar, assignment or project
point values, and due dates.
Late Work Policy
Late work cannot be accepted for any reason. You will have several weeks or even a month
or more to complete assignments. Please do not email late assignments to the instructor
or the TA - they will not be graded.
Communication Expectations
Please send all communication as email via your official student UNT email (my.unt.edu),
and if applicable, CC the TA for the class. I see emails before I see Canvas notifications.
Just like you, I get a ton of spam to my email address, and if it has [EXT] in the subject line,
there's a ~95% chance I'm just deleting it. Additionally, I cannot discuss any student issues
through external email due to FERPA, .e.g how do I know it's you I'm conversing with.
I have a 48 hour reply policy on all emails, excepting weekends and holidays.
Please come to me with any issues. An email is free and if I can’t resolve it, we can move
the issue up the chain.
All grades will be posted promptly after grading has been completed.

In your emails please include:
• Subject line: the course (e.g. CSCE 4350) that you are emailing about and a few
words (aka, the Subject)
• Body: a signature with your email with your name and UNT ID number.
This helps me not only help you, but if there are multiple issues with the course (i.e. a
module is broken for instance), I can quickly collate the issue.
Course Description
This course covers topics including logical and physical database system organization,
logical models, design issues, and secondary storage considerations. Students develop
and practice skills through the use of projects and real-world database creation. This
course is online and instruction and assignment submission will occur online through
Canvas.
Course Structure
This is an online course with a weekly module structure. Each week will have a reading /
video / assignment to complete and most weeks will have a quiz, homework or exam.
Course Prerequisites or Other Restrictions
CSCE 2110 is an enforced pre-requisite.
This course has digital components. To fully participate in this class, students will need
internet access to reference content on the Canvas Learning Management System. If
circumstances change, you will be informed of other technical needs to access course
content. Information on how to be successful in a digital learning environment can be
found at Learn AnywhereLinks to an external site. (https://online.unt.edu/learnLinks to an
external site.).
Course Objectives
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
1. Analyze a problem to determine its data requirements.
2. Create a database that satisfies the given data requirements.
3. Create, maintain and access data in a database using SQL.
4. Describe and demonstrate how B+-tree and hashing speed data access.

5. Describe and implement the theory of functional dependencies for Database
design.
Materials
There is no text required for the course – all resources are online
Technical Requirements & Skills
Minimum Technology Requirements
• A computer with Internet access
• Canvas Technical Requirements (Links to an external site.)
Netiquette
Netiquette, or online etiquette, refers to the way students are expected to interact with
each other and with their instructors online. Here are some general guidelines:
• Treat your instructor and classmates with respect in email or any other
communication.
• Remember that all college level communication should have correct spelling and
grammar (this includes discussion boards).
• Avoid slang terms such as “totes magotes” and texting abbreviations such as “u”
instead of “you.”
• Humor and sarcasm are highly encouraged. People who take the world seriously are
in for a rough journey.
• Don’t lead your emails off with your social security and bank account numbers,
password manager master password, home address, credit score, and dental
record jpegs. 3 of those will suffice.
See these Netiquette Guidelines (Links to an external site.) for more information.
Success in an Online Course
The key to success in the course is to keep up with the due dates and material, and work a
week or so ahead so that you have a buffer if any unexpected situations come up with work,
illness and so on.
How to Succeed as an Online StudentLinks to an external site.
Getting Help

Technical Assistance
Part of working in the online environment involves dealing with the inconveniences and
frustration that can arise when technology breaks down or does not perform as expected.
Here at UNT we have a Student Help Desk that you can contact for help with Canvas or
other technology issues.
UNT Help Desk (Links to an external site.)Links to an external site.
Call: 940-565-2324
Email: helpdesk@unt.edu
Walk-in: Sage Hall, Room 330
Walk-in Hours: Monday–Friday: 8am - 5pm
Telephone Availability:
• Spring Hours
o Monday–Thursday: 8am – 9pm
o Friday: 8am- 5pm
o Saturday: 11am- 3pm
For additional support, visit Canvas Technical Help
Laptop CheckoutsLinks to an external site.
The following library service desks provide laptop checkouts during hours of operationLinks
to an external site.. MacBooks are only available at Willis Library.
• Willis Library: The SparkLinks to an external site., First Floor
• Sycamore Library: Sycamore Service DeskLinks to an external site.
• Discovery Park: Library Service DeskLinks to an external site., Room B112
1 (Links to an external site.)
Student Support Services
o RegistrarLinks to an external site.
o Financial Aid (Links to an external site.)

o Student Legal Services (Links to an external site.)
o Career Center(Links to an external site.)
o Counseling and Testing Services (Links to an external site.)
o Student Affairs Care Team (Links to an external site.)
o Student Health and Wellness Center (Links to an external site.)
Academic Support Services
• Academic Resource Center (Links to an external site.)
• Academic Success Center (Links to an external site.)
• UNT Libraries (Links to an external site.)
• Writing Lab (Links to an external site.)
• MathLab (Links to an external site.)
Course Requirements
Percentages of final grade are approximate and subject to change.
Grade Percentages
Percentage of
Category
Final Grade
Homework 35%
Quizzes 35%
Midterm 15%
Final Exam 15%
Total 100%
Grading

Grading scale
Final Grade Letter
90.0 - 100 A
80.0 - 89.9 B
70.0 - 79.9 C
60.0 - 69.9 D
0.0 - 59.9 F
There is no curving of grades.
Course Topics
Course Topics
Module Topics
01 Introduction and Tools
02 Database Design and Entity Relationship Diagrams
03 SQL Part 1
04 SQL Part 2
05 SQL Hands-On 1
06 SQL Hands-On 2

07 Indexes and B-Trees
08 Midterm
09 phpMyAdmin
10 NoSQL
11 APIs / REST
12 AWS Data Management
13 AWS Part 2
14 Final Review
15 Final Exam
Course Evaluation
Student Perceptions of Teaching (SPOT) is the student evaluation system for UNT and
allows students the ability to confidentially provide constructive feedback to their
instructor and department to improve the quality of student experiences in the course.
Course Policies
Assignment Policy
All assignments are posted to Canvas and should be submitted to Canvas. No late
submissions will be accepted for any reason and I do not assign extra credit. Please
start work on assignments and quizzes well before the deadline and on a stable Internet
connection to avoid any submission delays due to technical difficulties. It is also
considered good practice to refresh the page when you submit an assignment to make sure
Canvas actually accepted it.
Examination Policy
You may use the Internet or any printed resources during exams, but please do not rely on
this as the exams and quizzes have a time limit and the questions are not easily ‘Google-

able’. DO NOT POST quiz questions to any online venue or share quiz questions with other
students. Violation of this policy will result in a zero for the assignment or exam. You may
use online resources during the exam, but all quizzes and exams must be taken by yourself
without human help.
Late Work
No late work is accepted. All submissions to Canvas must occur before the
deadline. The instructor or TA cannot accept assignments via email.
Attendance Policy and Participation
Students are expected to regularly login to Canvas, keep up with assignments and due
dates, and actively participate in online discussions and activities as posted.
Syllabus Change Policy
This syllabus, the grading scale, grades given on assignments, due dates, and any other
course details are subject to change at any time without prior notice or consent.
UNT Policies
Academic Integrity Policy
Academic Integrity Standards and Consequences. According to UNT Policy 06.003,
Student Academic Integrity, academic dishonesty occurs when students engage in
behaviors including, but not limited to cheating, fabrication, facilitating academic
dishonesty, forgery, plagiarism, and sabotage. A finding of academic dishonesty may result
in a range of academic penalties or sanctions ranging from admonition to expulsion from
the University.
Students taking this course implicitly agree to uphold the UNT honor code:
“I commit myself to honor, integrity, and responsibility as a student representing the
University of North Texas community. I understand and pledge to uphold academic integrity
as set forth by UNT Student Academic Integrity Policy, 06.003
(https://policy.unt.edu/policy/06-003). I affirm that the work I submit will always be my
own, and the support I provide and receive will always be honorable.”
It is highly important that you are familiar with the University’s academic integrity policy
and the CSE department’s guidelines on academic integrity:
UNT Academic Integrity Policy (PDF) (https://policy.unt.edu/policy/06-003Links to an
external site.)

CSE Academic Integrity
Guidelines: https://engineering.unt.edu/cse/students/resources/academic-
integrity.htmlLinks to an external site.
ADA Policy
UNT makes reasonable academic accommodation for students with disabilities. Students
seeking accommodation must first register with the Office of Disability Accommodation
(ODA) to verify their eligibility. If a disability is verified, the ODA will provide a student with
an accommodation letter to be delivered to faculty to begin a private discussion regarding
one’s specific course needs. Students may request accommodations at any time, however,
ODA notices of accommodation should be provided as early as possible in the semester to
avoid any delay in implementation. Note that students must obtain a new letter of
accommodation for every semester and must meet with each faculty member prior to
implementation in each class. For additional information see the ODA website (Links to an
external site.).
Emergency Notification & Procedures
UNT uses a system called Eagle Alert to quickly notify students with critical information in
the event of an emergency (i.e., severe weather, campus closing, and health and public
safety emergencies like chemical spills, fires, or violence). students will be notified by
Eagle Alert if there is a campus closing that will impact a class and describe that the
calendar is subject to change, citing the Campus Closures PolicyLinks to an external
site. (https://policy.unt.edu/policy/15-006Links to an external site.).
Retention of Student Records
Student records pertaining to this course are maintained in a secure location by the
instructor of record. All records such as exams, answer sheets (with keys), and written
papers submitted during the duration of the course are kept for at least one calendar year
after course completion. Course work completed via the Blackboard online system,
including grading information and comments, is also stored in a safe electronic
environment for one year. Students have the right to view their individual record; however,
information about student’s records will not be divulged to other individuals without proper
written consent. Students are encouraged to review the Public Information Policy and the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) laws and the University’s policy. See
UNT Policy 10.10, Records Management and Retention for additional information.
Acceptable Student Behavior

Student behavior that interferes with an instructor’s ability to conduct a class or other
students' opportunity to learn is unacceptable and disruptive and will not be tolerated in
any instructional forum at UNT. Students engaging in unacceptable behavior will be
directed to leave the classroom and the instructor may refer the student to the Dean of
Students to consider whether the student's conduct violated the Code of Student Conduct.
The University's expectations for student conduct apply to all instructional forums,
including University and electronic classroom, labs, discussion groups, field trips, etc.
What is the square root of nine? Visit UNT’s Code of Student Conduct (Links to an external
site.) to learn more.
Access to Information - Eagle Connect
Students’ access point for business and academic services at UNT is located
at: my.unt.edu (Links to an external site.). All official communication from the University
will be delivered to a student’s Eagle Connect account. For more information, please visit
the website that explains Eagle Connect and how to forward e-mail Eagle Connect (Links to
an external site.).
Student Evaluation Administration Dates
Student feedback is important and an essential part of participation in this course. The
student evaluation of instruction is a requirement for all organized classes at UNT. The
survey will be made available during weeks 13, 14 and 15 of the long semesters to provide
students with an opportunity to evaluate how this course is taught. Students will receive an
email from "UNT SPOT Course Evaluations via IASystem Notification" (no-
reply@iasystem.org) with the survey link. Students should look for the email in their UNT
email inbox. Simply click on the link and complete the survey. Once students complete the
survey they will receive a confirmation email that the survey has been submitted. For
additional information, please visit the SPOT website (Links to an external site.) or email
spot@unt.edu.
Sexual Assault Prevention
UNT is committed to providing a safe learning environment free of all forms of sexual
misconduct, including sexual harassment sexual assault, domestic violence, dating
violence, and stalking. Federal laws (Title IX and the Violence Against Women Act) and UNT
policies prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, and therefore prohibit sexual
misconduct. If you or someone you know is experiencing sexual harassment, relationship
violence, stalking, and/or sexual assault, there are campus resources available to provide
support and assistance. UNT’s Survivor Advocates can assist a student who has been
impacted by violence by filing protective orders, completing crime victim’s compensation

applications, contacting professors for absences related to an assault, working with
housing to facilitate a room change where appropriate, and connecting students to other
resources available both on and off campus. The Survivor Advocates can be reached at
SurvivorAdvocate@unt.edu or by calling the Dean of Students Office at 940-565- 2648.
Additionally, alleged sexual misconduct can be non-confidentially reported to the Title IX
Coordinator at oeo@unt.edu or at (940) 565 2759.
Important Notice for F-1 Students taking Distance Education Courses
Federal Regulation
To read detailed Immigration and Customs Enforcement regulations for F-1 students taking
online courses, please go to the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations website. The
specific portion concerning distance education courses is located at Title 8 CFR 214.2
Paragraph (f)(6)(i)(G).
The paragraph reads:
(G) For F-1 students enrolled in classes for credit or classroom hours, no more than the
equivalent of one class or three credits per session, term, semester, trimester, or quarter
may be counted toward the full course of study requirement if the class is taken on-line or
through distance education and does not require the student's physical attendance for
classes, examination or other purposes integral to completion of the class. An on-line or
distance education course is a course that is offered principally through the use of
television, audio, or computer transmission including open broadcast, closed circuit,
cable, microwave, or satellite, audio conferencing, or computer conferencing. If the F-1
student's course of study is in a language study program, no on-line or distance education
classes may be considered to count toward a student's full course of study requirement.
University of North Texas Compliance
To comply with immigration regulations, an F-1 visa holder within the United States may
need to engage in an on-campus experiential component for this course. This component
(which must be approved in advance by the instructor) can include activities such as taking
an on-campus exam, participating in an on-campus lecture or lab activity, or other on-
campus experience integral to the completion of this course.
If such an on-campus activity is required, it is the student’s responsibility to do the
following:
(1) Submit a written request to the instructor for an on-campus experiential component
within one week of the start of the course.

(2) Ensure that the activity on campus takes place and the instructor documents it in
writing with a notice sent to the International Student and Scholar Services Office. ISSS
has a form available that you may use for this purpose.
Because the decision may have serious immigration consequences, if an F-1 student is
unsure about his or her need to participate in an on-campus experiential component for
this course, s/he should contact the UNT International Student and Scholar Services Office
(telephone 940-565-2195 or email internationaladvising@unt.edu) to get clarification
before the one-week deadline.
Student Verification
UNT takes measures to protect the integrity of educational credentials awarded to
students enrolled in distance education courses by verifying student identity, protecting
student privacy, and notifying students of any special meeting times/locations or
additional charges associated with student identity verification in distance education
courses.
See UNT Policy 07-002 Student Identity Verification, Privacy, and Notification and Distance
Education Courses (Links to an external site.) (https://policy.unt.edu/policy/07-002).
Use of Student Work
A student owns the copyright for all work (e.g. software, photographs, reports,
presentations, and email postings) he or she creates within a class and the University is not
entitled to use any student work without the student’s permission unless all of the
following criteria are met:
• The work is used only once.
• The work is not used in its entirety.
• Use of the work does not affect any potential profits from the work.
• The student is not identified.
• The work is identified as student work.
If the use of the work does not meet all of the above criteria, then the University office or
department using the work must obtain the student’s written permission.
Download the UNT System Permission, Waiver and Release Form
Transmission and Recording of Student Images in Electronically-Delivered Courses

1. No permission is needed from a student for his or her image or voice to be
transmitted live via videoconference or streaming media, but all students should be
informed when courses are to be conducted using either method of delivery.
2. In the event an instructor records student presentations, he or she must obtain
permission from the student using a signed release in order to use the recording for
future classes in accordance with the Use of Student-Created Work guidelines
above.
3. Instructors who video-record their class lectures with the intention of re-using some
or all of recordings for future class offerings must notify students on the course
syllabus if students' images may appear on video. Instructors are also advised to
provide accommodation for students who do not wish to appear in class recordings.
Example: This course employs lecture capture technology to record class sessions.
Students may occasionally appear on video. The lecture recordings will be available to you
for study purposes and may also be reused in future course offerings.
No notification is needed if only audio and slide capture is used or if the video only records
the instructor's image. However, the instructor is encouraged to let students know the
recordings will be available to them for study purposes.